[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>CLARE HENRY:
Since the 1960s, it
has been proposed that the
ancient gods channel the stars
in flying craft and that
the evidence of this
is found in sacred art.
>>WILLIAM HENRY:
Are these ships warp
craft a la Star
Trek, flying saucers,
or could they be something else?
We'll find out
next on "Arcanum."
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>WILLIAM: It has been proposed
that the ancient gods were
actually extraterrestrials with
advanced knowledge of science
and engineering who
came to Earth to share
their technology with humans.
These space travelers
voyaged the stars
in vehicles resembling
flying saucers.
Recollections of these space
beings and their spaceships
are found in ancient artwork.
>>CLARE: It seems
possible, if not probable,
that Earth was visited by
extraterrestrial beings
in the past.
This idea is
incredibly exciting.
>>WILLIAM: One of the
criticisms of ancient astronaut
or ancient alien theory is
that its proponents believe
there is nothing spiritual
about these ancient beings.
They are simply beings
with spectacular advanced
technology.
>>CLARE: Many believe
there are star races who
travel the stars in
tin can spaceships.
We are on the way to
becoming such a race.
NASA has set a course to build
a warp drive within 100 years.
This means the ancient gods are
less than 100 years in advance
of where we are technologically.
>>WILLIAM: However, the art
that we are going to explore
are illustrations of a far more
advanced and spiritual race
and technology.
These beings are
masters of arcanum.
>>CLARE: In these
examples, the heavens
open and beings
travel in whirlwinds
and winged celestial
thrones and are actually
composed of an organic
spiritual material or light,
and so are the bodies of the
beings who ride upon them.
>>WILLIAM: This
spiritual technology
was called Merkabah mysticism
by the Jewish mystics.
>>CLARE: The book of Enoch
was based on this Merkabah
or Merkavah mysticism,
a Jewish literature
associated with mystical vision
of the divine throne, which
is envisioned as a luminous
cloud, chariot, throne vehicle,
or Merkabah that
enables transport
between heaven and earth.
>>WILLIAM: Merkavah means
throne chariot or sacred boat
and refers to the craft
of Ezekiel's vision.
The kav element or kab
is the cab or car of God.
>>CLARE: The goal of
the Merkavah mystic
was to transform into
light and enter the throne
world after passing
through 7 heavenly mansions
or holes in space.
>>WILLIAM: The highly esoteric
literature of these mystics
describes the journey to the
other worldly throne of God
and their encounter with the
figure in the form of a man,
as described in Ezekiel 126.
>>AUDIENCE: William's
feature investigation
will explore this
extraordinary mysticism
as we investigate the ascension
thrones of the ancients.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>WILLIAM: Elias, the
Messiah's forerunner,
is a man to whom many
great mysteries of arcanum
are attached.
According to the book of
Kings, he raised the dead,
brought fire down
from the sky, and was
taken up in a whirlwind,
either accompanied
by a chariot and horses
of flame or riding in it.
It is clear that Elijah
knew the secret of arcanum.
The chariot Elijah rode to
heaven is the Merkabah throne.
In this Russian icon
of the fiery ascent
of Elijah to heaven from
the 15th and 16th centuries,
we see Elijah ascending in
his fiery chariot or whirlwind
and transmitting his power
garment to Elisha, his priest.
Importantly, as Elijah ascended
in the Merkabah whirlwind,
he did so in a form other
than a flesh and blood human.
He appears to have
adopted a body that
could bend space
and time and also
dematerialize and re-materialize
at another location
or frequency.
This special ability
is transmittable
and is symbolized by Elijah's
pala garment or power
garment, which he transmitted
to his priest Elisha as he rose.
Is this an actual
physical garment?
Or as we have proposed in
the "Cloak of Light" episode,
is this a symbol for a
transmittable vibration
or teaching that is symbolized
by a cloak or a garment?
In this northern Russian
icon of the ascent
of Elijah from the
13th century, we
see the prophet
ascending to heaven
in a cart drawn by horses.
A fresco of Elijah from
the Rila Monastery,
Bulgaria, shows him
riding upon a chariot
of fire drawn by horses.
It is common in eastern art to
see depictions of the prophet
Elijah riding a flaming
chariot across the sky.
Sometimes the
horses are drawn by
an angel, symbolizing
heavenly power.
In this example, we
clearly see the equation
of Elijah's chariot
with the sun.
We clearly see Elijah ascending.
And we notice that
Elijah is aimed
at a portal or a gate
that is filled with stars.
Elijah's star chariot
drawn by horses
is often compared
to the sun or star
chariot of the Greek
sun god, Helios.
The horses that drew the
carriage were immortal and were
said to have been born on
the Blessed Aisles, which
were located in Elysium.
Helios's Roman
counterpart, Apollo,
also rides the star chariot.
The Helios symbolism
is also found
in a tomb under Saint
Peter's Basilica.
This third-century painting has
been dubbed the Christ Helios
and is thought to portray the
ascended Jesus riding the star
chariot through the heavens.
The fire of the
chariot of Elijah
is the same fire of the
many-eyed, red-winged, and
burning seraphim, the
highest order of angels.
Their whirling
vortex-shaped bodies
are composed of pure
love and pure light.
Beginning with my 2010
presentation, Soul Rising,
I have equated the seraphim
with the rainbow body beings.
The fire of the
chariot of Elijah
is the same as the fire of
Moses's vision, the bush that
did not burn.
It is the same fire that
guided as a flaming pillar
the children of Israel through
the wilderness for 40 years.
It is the same fire that
protected Shadrach, Meshach,
and Abednego from
the destructive heat
of the fiery furnace
of Nebuchadnezzar.
The book of Daniel says
these three wise men
entered this fire and emerged
with the Son of God in toe.
This fire is the
brilliant light that
guided the Magi across
the eastern deserts
to worship the infant Christ.
The gnostic
revelation of the Magi
says the Magi weren't
following a star,
they were following a
star man, a star child,
a man of light burning
with the fire of God.
It is the same brilliant light
that the apostles witnessed
on Mount Tabor at the
transfiguration, which
we explored in the episode on
the icons of transfiguration,
when Jesus demonstrated his
knowledge of the garment
of light, which he
received during his baptism
by John the Baptist,
who some claim is
the reincarnated Elijah.
At the transfiguration, Jesus
morphed into a light being,
a cloud of light or fire that
resembles a portal manifested
and is usually shown behind
him in transfiguration art.
Interestingly, both
Moses and Elijah
manifested on either side of
the cloud of light surrounding
Jesus.
It is the light that blinded
the persecutor Saul on his way
to Damascus, which led to his
baptism as the Apostle Paul.
In the vision of Paul from the
Acts of 20-- book of Acts 22:6,
he says, "About noon, as I
came near Damascus, suddenly
a bright light from
heaven flashed around me."
Jesus manifests in a transparent
almond-shaped mandorla
or gateway.
It is the same light
that surrounded
Jesus when he
appeared to receive
the soul of his mother, the
theotokos, at her dormition.
Elijah is prophesied to return.
The Old Testament ends with the
directly-spoken words of God,
"Behold, I will send you Elijah
the Prophet before the coming
of the great and dreadful
day of the Lord."
This implies that Elijah
is coming and going
from the material to
the immaterial realm
or that his soul will
reincarnate in a new body.
Elijah's fiery
ascension vehicle is
identical to the chariot of
Kristo, Krishna, or Kristna,
the divinely conceived
Hindu lord of lords.
Hindus believe that Krishna
was the eighth avatar
or incarnation of the god
Vishnu, one of the Hindu
deities in the Hindu trinity.
Hindu scriptures state
that Krishna appeared
in all the fullness of
his power and glory.
He was incarnate sometime
between 900 and 1200 BC,
it is believed,
immediately following
the ascension of Elijah,
and his religious teachings
can be found in the
Bhagavad Gita, one
of the sacred texts in Hinduism.
Like Christ and
Elijah, Krishna is
to return again as Kalki, riding
a white horse to do battle
with the prince of evil who
will desolate the earth.
The white horse is a symbol
for the Merkavah throne
upon which this
figure rises or rides.
Scholars document
over 100 similarities
between the Hindu and Christian
saviors, Krishna and Christ.
Some even propose Jesus is
a reincarnation of Krishna
and is the rider of the
white horse of revelation.
Is Krishna also Elijah?
Krishna is a Sanskrit word
meaning object of attraction.
"Energy flows where
the attention goes,"
says the metaphysical
law of attraction,
and may be inferred here.
According to the
law of attraction,
we attract into our lives
whatever we focus on.
The law of attraction
in quantum physics
shows us that all the
universe is made of energy.
This includes both what we call
solid objects and something is
ethereal is thoughts.
The truth is that even
so-called solid objects
have a high percentage
of empty space in them.
They're made up of energy.
The law of attraction takes
this fact into account
and is a key to
Merkavah metaphysics.
Merkavah, or throne
chariot mysticism,
is the earliest form of
Jewish esotericism known.
Its origins however can be
traced to ancient Sumeria.
In Sumerian tradition, kingship
was first sent down to earth,
to man, from heaven.
The Sumerian kings list
composed around 2,200
BC opens with the
line, "When kingship
was lowered from heaven,
kingship was in Eridu."
Kingship is symbolized
by a winged disk.
This gives us one explanation
for the flying thrown.
It lowers and raises the King
between heaven and earth.
Intriguingly, the Sumerian king
list begins before the flood.
The early list names eight kings
with a total of 241,200 years
from the time when the kingship
was lowered from heaven
to the time when the
flood swept over the land.
And once more, the kingship
was lowered from heaven
after the flood.
From this account, we once again
deduce that the king's throne
traverses heaven and earth.
It was first lowered at the
beginning of civilization
and then will also be
lowered once again.
In his commentary,
so-called Sumerian seals
relating to gods
from outer space,
or Anunnaki, Dr. Clyde Winters,
director of Nigeria's Uthman
dan Fodio Institute,
reacts to the possibility
that the Anunnaki
gods of the Sumerians
who brought kingship to earth
were extraterrestrials flying
around in flying
saucers or rocket ships,
as ancient astronauts or ancient
alien theorists maintain.
He provides us with an
enchanting but knowing reading
of this Sumerian
cylinder seal depicting
the lowering of heaven to earth.
Says Winters, "In
the image, we see
the Sumerian sign
of kingship, which
is represented by the
figure, which is a star
shape and include 16 points.
The dot reads 'lie,' and the
line is I. In Sumerian, lie I,
to become visible or shine,
is the interpretation.
Next, we see two gods.
On the left, we see
a humano-fish figure.
This god may represent the
god Enki, who was like a fish
and is supposed to be
the creator of man.
The other god may be
Enlil, his half brother.
The hands of the gods
pointing to the log
represent the signs i and ta
and reads, send forth his touch.
Between the gods and above
them, we see a log-shaped figure
with a number of lines.
On the right-hand
side of the log,
we see two signs that read,
'witness amazement.' And
at the end of the log,
on the left-hand side,
we see three signs that read,
'become a visible witness
to benefit man.'
Under the a sign, in
the center of the seal,
we see a figure surrounded
by symbols that mean,
'become visible and powerful,'
'nourish.' A third sign reads,
'send forth sustenance.'
These symbols probably read,
become visible, a
powerful leader or father,
to send forth
sustenance for mankind."
Winter's reading
of the seal clearly
tells us this seal depicts the
amazing and wondrous moment
when the Sumerian
god Anu manifests.
We witness amazement.
Does he emerge from the
star or the starship
and unveil himself?
The log Anu is
riding upon clearly
reflects Merkabah
craft symbolism
similar to Elijah's whirlwind.
There's a tendency among
ancient alien theorists
to interpret this vehicle as a
hardware spaceship or a flying
saucer.
However, we know the
winged disk, or Merkavah,
is a living organic vehicle,
not a flying Toyota.
The being riding in it
is a being of light.
And read, in light of
Merkavah symbolism,
this lightship of Anu
sends forth sustenance.
The reason the distinction
is so important
is because the organic
lightship concept
alludes to the
transformation of a human
into a light being as a
prerequisite for traveling
aboard this ship.
We see similar symbolism
in this Ashipu ceremony.
The precept Enki,
clad in fish suits,
flanked the radiant
tree of life.
The Mullaloo, or
purifier, is the name
for this sacred tower and
the ringing cones emanating
from it.
The god hovers above in
the lightship, or Merkabah.
This Babylonian depiction
from the British Museum
also shows the god in the winged
ring, or Merkabah, hovering
above the radiant tree of
life, giving sustenance.
The priests hold pails
or so-called handbags,
which contain either
tablets of knowledge
or this nourishing
substance harvested
from the radiant tree.
This Neo-Assyrian seal
from northern Mesopotamia
in the mid eight to
seventh century BC
shows a similar
motif-- A god riding
in a winged or feathered ring
hovers above the sacred tree.
Once again, this is the organic
light vehicle, the Merkavah.
A similar scene is presented in
an eighth century BC Assyrian
relief now in the
British Museum.
The radiant or
zigzagy sacred tree
is flanked by a pair of
winged genii who carry buckets
and what appear to be fir cones
used to sprinkle presumably
water from the bucket
for purification.
Above the tree hovers a
winged lightship, sunship,
or starship.
This ship represents the
royal god Anu from Sumeria,
Ashur from Assyria, or Ahura
Mazda from ancient Iran,
or the Assyrian equivalent of
the Babylonian god Markduk.
Turning to Iran, the
Persian god, Ahura Mazda,
also flies on the
feathered or winged chariot
ring, the Merkabah.
The Faravahar, or
winged disk symbol
of Ahura, whose name means
light, and Mazda or wisdom,
is the omniscient and omnipotent
god of the Zoroastrians.
He is shown holding the
ring of cosmic sovereignty
while riding in
a feathered ring.
It is associated with
divinity, royalty, and power
in the ancient Near East,
especially Egypt, Mesopotamia,
Anatolia, and Iran, and
has the general meaning
of guardian angel.
The winged ring is
thought to represent
the divine royal glory of the
king in an Avestan language
word-- and is an
Avestan language word
for a Zoroastrian concept
literally denoting
glory or splendor
but is understood
as a divine mystical force
or power projected upon
and aiding the appointed.
In present-day
Zoroastrianism, the Faravahar
is said to be a reminder
of one's spiritual purpose
or mission in life, which
is to live in such a way
that the soul progresses
towards frashokereti,
or union with Ahura Mazda.
In this scene, we see
a Neo-Assyrian feather
robed archer figure
symbolizing Ashur
that matches the Iranian
images of Ahura Mazda.
The right hand is
extended similar
to the Faravahar figure,
while the left hand
holds a bow instead of a ring.
In ancient Egypt, the
reassembled Osiris,
the god of rebirth,
renewal, and resurrection,
was also shown seated on
a feathered, therefore
flying, ascension throne.
This symbolized
kingship and also
Osiris's power of ascension.
This makes Osiris's
throne equivalent
to the Merkavah throne chariot.
Ancient Egyptian religion
is predicated on the belief
that the deceased
could become a star
and live for eternity with
the god sailing the Milky
Way upon the celestial arc
of the millions of years,
or the ship of eternity.
In these scenes from the Temple
of Hathor at Dendera in Egypt,
we see the celestial beings
are seated on feathered thrones
as they sail or ride
upon the arc of eternity.
The shape of these
ships resemble in form,
and I believe
function, worm holes
or dual-headed, inter-stellar,
or inter-dimensional
transportation portals.
In this example, we see Sekhmet,
the lion-headed goddess,
sitting upon her
feathered throne.
She rides upon this
thrown into the stars.
Sometimes we see two
gods riding together
upon the boat of eternity.
Sometimes there's more than two.
In this fantastic
example from the Temple
of Ramses II at Abydos, the
great king sits upon his throne
as he rides upon the
ship of eternity.
This is a powerful forerunner
to the Merkabah craft.
The Egyptian pyramid
texts describe
the process of ascension.
Rising from the sarcophagus,
the resurrected king
would make his way out
of the pyramid tomb,
reading the text inscribed
on the walls on his way.
And they would assist him
in his transfiguration
or spiritualization.
As the soul transcends the body,
it is reborn as a light being
and enters a celestial
light resembling
a hollow tube or tube of light.
It has entered a
wormhole and will now
ride the boat of
eternity to heaven.
In Utterance 216 of
the pyramid text,
the king becomes a
flash of lightning.
In Utterance 264,
the king ferries
across the sky to
join the sun god.
All of the ascension
tools of the king,
the boat or craft of eternity,
the feathered throne,
the holy stick, and the key
of life were created by Ptah ,
the god of technology, who
wears a multi-colored feathered
ascension suit that resembles
the rainbow body of light
in form and also function.
He is also credited with
fashioning the bodies of men.
Could it be that
he tweaked our DNA
to enable humans to more readily
make these ascension tools?
It's important to take note
that the feathered ascension
thrones crafted by Ptah
for the Egyptian gods
are matched by the star
thrones of the Sumerians.
The feathered or star
throne and the winged ship
go together in the
Sumerian tradition.
In 300 BC, the Old Testament
god, Yahweh, the Lord,
was also presented as a shining
or luminous humanoid presence
who sits enthroned on the
winged throne of glory,
the luminous Merkabah
in the heavenly realm
and in the temple of Solomon.
In this example from
the third century BC,
we can see that Yahweh's
wing-ringed throne is the same
as Ahura Mazda's.
In his awesome vision of the
Lord's cab or car as a flying
craft with wheels
within wheels, Ezekiel
described the chariot
throne as alive,
meaning it's a living, organic
creature or living being.
The wheels were whirling
and sparkling yellow.
The Lord is enthroned on top
of this whirling vehicle,
and his throne is strikingly
similar to that of Osiris.
Ezekiel's enigmatic
sky or star vehicle
has been misinterpreted as
a UFO or hardware spaceship.
It is clearly described as some
kind of living, organic being.
The wording of Ezekiel's
description of the living
beings within the wheels
is enigmatic to scholars,
but it suggests the Merkabah
possesses consciousness.
One perspective is,
and their whole body
and their backs and their hands
and their wings and the wheels
were full of eyes, just like
the whirling or twirling
bodies of the seraphim.
Another perspective says
the meaning of the word eyes
is points of light.
This view leaves us
with the living beings
of light on a throne that
is filled with light.
In Ezekiel's vision, he
saw Yahweh, the Lord,
as a human figure sitting
on that throne of light.
And he was fiery or
filled with light.
"All around him was a
glowing halo, like a rainbow,
shining in the clouds
on a rainy day.
This is what the glory of
the Lord looked like to me.
When I saw it, I fell
face down on the ground,
and I heard someone's
voice speaking to me,"
said Ezekiel in
chapter 1 verse 28.
This rainbow being offered
Ezekiel an open scroll to eat
and then told him to address
people who would not listen.
After eating the scroll,
Ezekiel was lifted up
by the glory of the Lord amidst
a rumbling sound as it rose,
and he was taken to his people.
It appears Ezekiel is
describing the Lord
as having a living rainbow body.
Further, those who
encountered this rainbow light
and ate the scroll
were transformed by it,
suggesting that
eating the scroll
meant integrating or
becoming one with the Lord
and gaining the ability to
ascend in the Merkabah craft.
From Ezekiel's encounter with
the rainbow angel in the craft,
we may speculate that the
Merkabah craft and the rainbow
body go together.
In Claire's "Beyond
the Veil" segment,
she will take us deeper into
this Merkabah craft symbolism
and show us how it was
adopted by Christian mystics.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>CLARE: Many do not realize
this Merkabah symbolism was
adopted by Christianity.
In ascension art,
it is Jesus who
rides the winged or
feathered sky throne.
The book of Hebrews
identifies Jesus
as the high priest of
the order of Melchizedek.
As such, he would have
mastered the secrets
of Solomon's temple,
especially those
of the ascension
throne or Merkabah.
In this illumination
from a sixth century
Syrian manuscript,
the Rabbula Gospels,
we see the ascension of Jesus
upon a feathered throned
chariot, similar to the
one that Ezekiel saw.
As art historians note, a great
many Western ascension images
adapt the pattern
seen in this image.
This became the common
way of portraying
the ascension of Christ.
Jesus is in a mandorla or
rainbow ring on a wheeled
Merkavah chariot, attended
by angels facing the viewer.
He holds an open scroll.
Below, the Virgin Mary
stands in the center
flanked by two angels who
apparently are addressing
to the apostles the
words in Act 1 verse 11.
"Ye men in Galilee, why stand
you looking up to heaven?"
The Merkavah symbolism is
explicit in this ascension
image from Macedonia.
Christ ascends to
the heavenly tsion
upon a winged or
feathered throne.
Merkabah's symbolism is also
overt in Andreas Ritzos'
"Ascension," in which Christ
ascends in a ring carried
into the heavens by
feathered or winged beings.
This scene precisely matches
the winged or feathered ring
of ancient Babylon.
In this detail of
the cloud, we notice
that it is lined with stars.
Manna or star food rains from
the underbelly of the cloud.
The pope can be seen harvesting
this extraordinary cosmic
substance as it covers
the earth, the people,
and the ground.
This manna or star
food comes from above.
Is it brain food?
Is it sound?
And could this be the
cosmic Christ energy
that is readily flowing over
the planet since the beginning
of time and available
to man if he
understands how to perceive it?
Is this possible?
The cloud is the bright
cloud manifested by Jesus
during his greatest miracle,
the transfiguration.
During this event, he
transfigured or metamorphosed
into a star man and back again.
Christian art portrays
the transfigured Jesus
with a star-like body.
A circular portal
behind him is referred
to as a cloud in the Bible.
This is his ascension
and return vehicle.
Interpreting this craft
as a hardware spaceship
or flying saucer deprives one of
a path of spiritual development
and the recognition
that the Merkavah throne
is something that can be
developed from within.
In Acts 1 verse 9,
Jesus was taken up
before the disciples'
very eyes, and a cloud
hid him from their sight.
They were looking intently up
into the sky as he was going,
when suddenly two men dressed
in white stood beside them.
"Men of Galilee,"
they said, "why do you
stand here looking into the sky?
This same Jesus who has been
taken from you into heaven
will come back in
the same way you
have seen him go into heaven."
Jesus is routinely
shown in Christian art
riding in a bubble of light.
He sits on an arch, his throne.
This bubble and throne
combination is the Merkabah.
The device beneath Jesus
is the etimasia, or throne
of the second coming.
Christ's craft often features
the rotating ophanim or wheels.
Because they are
revolving, we may
presume they create a
whirlwind or a vortex.
In the book of Ezekiel
and again in Daniel,
the ophanim were giant
eye-covered wheels
of fire, which is why
they are sometimes
referred to as wheels of
fiery flame and burning fire.
Sometimes they are shown as
red, but other times they
are transparent.
In this last judgment
or second coming scene,
Jesus floats in a bubble of
blue light above that etimasia.
Looking closely, we see two
interlocking winged rings.
These are called
ophanim or wheels.
They are part of
Ezekiel's Merkavah throne.
It is said they are the actual
wheels of Christ's Merkabah
throne or celestial vehicle.
Their appearance
signals the crossover
of Jewish Merkavah
mysticism into Christianity.
We see the red-winged seraphim
guarding Christ's throne.
The winged seraphim
are sometimes
shown standing on the
ophanim or hot wheels,
uniting the symbolism of
the whirling Merkabah,
the ophanim and the light body.
In this fantastic example, Jesus
is encircled by a rainbow ring
as he ascends on
his throne, which
is composed of winged
or feathered beings.
We note that his robe
is covered with stars,
and his feet are placed
within three rings, which
also symbolized the
Chintamani Stone,
the wish-fufilling
jewel, the teraphim,
or the treasure of the world.
Moscow's Tretyakov
Gallery is home
to this image, the
"Trinity of Saints."
Here, the ascended Christ sits
on the lap of the Heavenly
Father, whose feet are on a
footstool with ophanim wheels.
In Andrei Rublev's stunning
icons of Christ in majesty,
we see him enthroned with
his feet on the footstool.
Again, the ringed winged
ophanim symbolize the Merkabah.
Note that the throne
is transparent.
In the fourth century
in Egypt, Jesus
was portrayed ascending
on a throne, actually
the Arc of the
Covenant, surrounded
by concentric rings that
form a tube of light.
The same motif is present here.
Jesus ascends on the throne
in a tube of light composed
of concentric rings
filled with stars.
The presence of the
two guardian angels
signals he is ascending on
the Ark of the Covenant.
We can now appreciate
that the profile
view of the Egyptian god on the
throne upon the celestial boat
was transposed into the
face on view of Jesus
ascending on his throne in
the portal or tube of light.
Both images tell the same story.
A celestial being is
ascending via the arc throne.
In this Russian icon,
the ascended Jesus
sits on the lap of
the Heavenly Father
in a bubble of fiery
light, encircled
by a vortex of angels
or light beings
whose bodies form a portal.
The ophanim wheels
are at his feet.
Here, a red-winged
Christ sits on his throne
in a bubble of light.
Over and over again, we
see this incredible art
stretching over hundreds
and hundreds of years.
What else did these
artists really
know about the ancient
secrets of long ago,
the cosmic sap of Arcanum?
This bubble of light has an
interesting correspondence
with a modern scientific
theory concerning warp drives.
The term warp drive was invented
by Gene Roddenberry in 1966,
when he boldly set humanity
on a course for the stars
in Star Trek, allowing
the minds of man
to venture further afield
in their consciousness.
In the series, the starship
Enterprise opens a warp tunnel
and travels faster than
the speed of light.
Warp travel has long been
thought to be impossible.
However, like another Star Trek
invention, beaming or quantum
teleportation, which
breakthrough science is now
making possible, warp travel
is also within our reach.
Roddenberry's imaginative craft
inspired a young physicist
named Miguel
Alcubierre to ponder
what it would take to
actually make a warp craft.
In a 1994 paper titled
"The Warp Drive,
Hyper-Fast Travel Within
General Relativity,"
he envisioned a bubble
in space as a mechanism
for getting an
object from point A
to B at faster than light
speeds without running afoul
of Einstein's law of
special relativity,
which prohibits such travel.
In 1994, a physicist,
Miguel Alcubierre,
conceived a spacecraft
that could travel faster
than the speed of
light and eat holes
through any matter in its way.
Alcubierre realized
that for a spacecraft
to travel faster than
the speed of light,
it would need to somehow
create a warp bubble around it.
This would allow the
spacecraft to be contained
within its own
region of spacetime.
If the bubble can be controlled,
then the light speed limit
can be exceeded in normal
space, the spacecraft
itself would be stationary,
whereas the bubble in spacetime
will zip around at
effectively infinite speed.
At the front of the
warp bubble, spacetime
would contract, while
behind the bubble,
spacetime would expand--
a fractal of the Big Bang.
This rocking motion would
push the craft through space
faster than the speed of
light, like a bobber surfing
on a wave.
The ride would be
smooth, even though there
is chaos around the bubble.
The ship is the still
point of the bubble.
It is the neutral point between
expansion and contraction.
In Islamic mystical tradition
is the concept of tayy al-Ard,
or the folding up of the
earth, whereby a person is,
without actually
moving, miraculously
transported to another location.
The concept has been
expressed as traversing
the earth without moving.
Some have termed it moving
by the earth being displaced
under one's feet,
far-off destination
by the world spinning very
rapidly beneath their feet.
The concept of Tayy
al-Ard has its roots
in the following verses of the
chapter An-Naml of the Quran.
Quran 27, verse 38, "Solomon
said to his own men,
ye chiefs, which
of you can bring me
the throne of the Queen
of Sheba before she
and her envoys come
to me in submission?"
Quran 27, verse 39, "Said
an ifrit of the djinns,
I will bring it to thee before
thou rise from thy counsel.
Indeed, I have full
strength for the purpose
and may be trusted."
Quran 27, verse 40, "Said one
who had knowledge of the book,
I will bring it to thee within
the twinkling of an eye.
Then when Solomon saw it
placed firmly before him,
he said, this is by
the grace of my Lord."
The account of
Solomon's coronation
says the king sat on
the throne of Yahweh
and was worshipped with him.
1 Chronicles 29,
verse 30, "Solomon
sat on the throne
of Yahweh as king."
NASA is presently funding
a prototype Alcubierre warp
drive.
William noticed that
the proposed design
for the Alcubierre
drive is strikingly
similar to the craft
of Ezekiel, as rendered
on the wall of Amiens
Cathedral in France.
The logo for NASA's
Eagleworks Laboratories,
which is carrying out the
warp drive experiments,
features a warp craft
entering a wormhole.
"Godspeed" accompanies the logo.
Godspeed, warp
speed, same thing.
The Eagleworks logo incorporates
artist Les Bossinas's depiction
of a hypothetical wormhole
induction-propelled spacecraft
based loosely on
the 1994 warp drive
paper of Miguel Alcubierre.
The warp craft
enters a rainbow ring
and travels to a distant galaxy.
Eagleworks' logo
features three symbols
we have seen in a cartoon from
the Egyptian book of "Coming
Forth by Day," in which the
bird-headed god Ra, the sun,
rides a wormhole-shaped
ship of eternity, the sun
boat or starship, into a
gate of stars, a stargate.
In both cartoons,
we link a bird,
a craft capable of
traveling millions
of years and a
portal or stargate.
This combination of symbols has
been in the human imagination
for a very long time.
Ancient Egypt isn't the only
place that links the bird tribe
and winged ring or craft
of the gods symbolism.
It also shows up on
the sixth century
BC cylinder seals from Babylon.
In the example
below, the sun god
Shamash hovers in the
winged sun disk throne.
The humanoid Shamash
in the winged ring
is an archetype
of not a prototype
for a human being in a warp
craft with an outer ring
of exotic matter that
can bend spacetime.
Jewish mystics called
this craft the Merkabah
and describe its ability to
open portals-- so too is Jesus.
Arcanum humbly suggests that
the folks at NASA's Eagleworks
can dramatically
increase their chances
of realizing this extraordinary
starship dream by tapping
the imagination
of the visionaries
of the ancient
world and nurturing
their minds with the symbolism
of the ancient light ship
enthusiasts.
If they were to study Merkabah
or throne chariot mysticism,
they would discover
a wealth of insight.
One may even venture to say
that for NASA to master the warp
drive, they must first kick
in the spiritual drive.
>>WILLIAM: I'm William Henry.
Thank you for
watching "Arcanum."
>>CLARE: And I'm Clare Henry.
See you next time.
[MUSIC PLAYING]